Sign your app
Android requires that all APKs be digitally signed with a certificate before they can be installed. And you need to sign your Android App Bundle before you can upload it to the Play Console.

This document describes how to sign your APK or app bundle using Android Studio, including creating and storing your certificate, signing different build configurations using different certificates, and configuring the build process to sign your APKs automatically.

Certificates and keystores
A public-key certificate, also known as a digital certificate or an identity certificate, contains the public key of a public/private key pair, as well as some other metadata identifying the owner of the key (for example, name and location). The owner of the certificate holds the corresponding private key.

When you sign an APK, the signing tool attaches the public-key certificate to the APK—the same is true when signing an app bundle. The public-key certificate serves as a "fingerprint" that uniquely associates the APK or app bundle to you and your corresponding private key. This helps Android ensure that any future updates to your app are authentic and come from the original author. The key used to create this certificate is called the app signing key.

A keystore is a binary file that contains one or more private keys.

Every app must use the same certificate throughout its lifespan in order for users to be able to install new versions as updates to the app. For more about the benefits of using the same certificate for all your apps throughout their lifespans, see Signing Considerations below.

Sign your debug build
When running or debugging your project from the IDE, Android Studio automatically signs your app with a debug certificate generated by the Android SDK tools. The first time you run or debug your project in Android Studio, the IDE automatically creates the debug keystore and certificate in $HOME/.android/debug.keystore, and sets the keystore and key passwords.

Because the debug certificate is created by the build tools and is insecure by design, most app stores (including the Google Play Store) will not accept an APK or app bundle that's signed with a debug certificate for publishing.

Android Studio automatically stores your debug signing information in a signing configuration so you do not have to enter it every time you debug. A signing configuration is an object consisting of all of the necessary information to sign your app, including the keystore location, keystore password, key name, and key password. You cannot directly edit the debug signing configuration, but you can configure how you sign your release build.

For more information about how to build and run apps for debugging, see Build and Run Your App.

Expiry of the debug certificate
The self-signed certificate used to sign your app for debugging has an expiration date of 30 years from its creation date. When the certificate expires, you will get a build error.

To fix this problem, simply delete the debug.keystore file. The file is stored in the following locations:

~/.android/ on OS X and Linux
C:\Documents and Settings\<user>\.android\ on Windows XP
C:\Users\<user>\.android\ on Windows Vista and Windows 7, 8, and 10
The next time you build and run the debug build type, the build tools will regenerate a new keystore and debug key. Note that you must run your app, building alone does not regenerate the keystore and debug key.

Manage your key
Because your app signing key is used to verify your identity as a developer and to ensure seamless and secure updates for your users, managing your key and keeping it secure are very important, both for you and for your users. You can choose either to opt in to use App Signing by Google Play to securely manage and store your app signing key using Google's infrastructure or to manage and secure your own keystore and app signing key.

By opting in to App Signing by Google Play, you will gain the following benefits:

Ensure that the app signing key is not lost. Loss of the app signing key means that an app cannot be updated, so it is critical for it not to be lost.
Ensure that the app signing key is not compromised. Compromise of the key would allow a malicious attacker to deploy a malicious version of your app as an update over an existing install. With Play App Signing, developers only manage an upload key which can be reset in the case of loss and compromise. In the event of compromise, an attacker also needs access to the developer account to be able to do anything malicious.
Use App Signing by Google Play
With App Signing by Google Play, Google manages and protects your app's signing key for you and uses it to sign your APKs for distribution. And, because app bundles defer building and signing APKs to the Google Play Store, you need to enroll in App Signing by Google Play before you upload your app bundle.

When using App Signing by Google Play, you will use two keys: the app signing key and the upload key. You keep the upload key and use it to sign your app for upload to the Google Play Store.

When you opt in to use App Signing by Google Play, you export and encrypt your app signing key using the Play Encrypt Private Key tool provided by Google Play, and then upload it to Google's infrastructure. Then you create a separate upload key and register it with Google. When you are ready to publish, you sign your app using the upload key and upload it to Google Play. Google then uses the upload certificate to verify your identity, and signs your APK(s) with your app signing key for distribution as shown in figure 1. (If you do not already have an app signing key, you can generate one during the sign-up process.)



Figure 1. Signing an app with App Signing by Google Play

When you use App Signing by Google Play, if you lose your upload key, or if it is compromised, you can contact Google to revoke your old upload key and generate a new one. Because your app signing key is secured by Google, you can continue to upload new versions of your app as updates to the original app, even if you change upload keys.

For more information about how to opt in to use App Signing by Google Play, see Manage your app signing keys.

Manage your own key and keystore
Instead of using App Signing by Google Play, you can choose to manage your own app signing key and keystore. If you choose to manage your own app signing key and keystore, you are responsible for securing the key and the keystore. Additionally, you cannot upload Android App Bundles without enrolling in App Signing by Google Play.

When you are ready to create your own key and keystore, make sure you first choose a strong password for your keystore and a separate strong password for each private key stored in the keystore. You must keep your keystore in a safe and secure place. If you lose access to your app signing key or your key is compromised, Google cannot retrieve the app signing key for you, and you will not be able to release new versions of your app to users as updates to the original app. For more information, see Secure your key, below.

If you manage your own app signing key and keystore, when you sign your APK, you will sign it locally using your app signing key and upload the signed APK directly to the Google Play Store for distribution as shown in figure 2.



Figure 2. Signing an app when you manage your own app signing key

Generate a key and keystore
If you don't already have an app signing or upload key, you can generate one using Android Studio as follows:

In the menu bar, click Build > Build > Generate Signed Bundle/APK.
In the Generate Signed Bundle or APK dialog, select Android App Bundle or APK and click Next.
Below the field for Key store path, click Create new.

On the New Key Store window, provide the following information for your keystore and key, as shown in figure 3.


Figure 3. Create a new keystore in Android Studio.

Keystore

Key store path: Select the location where your keystore should be created.
Password: Create and confirm a secure password for your keystore.
Key

Alias: Enter an identifying name for your key.
Password: Create and confirm a secure password for your key. This should be different from the password you chose for your keystore.
Validity (years): Set the length of time in years that your key will be valid. Your key should be valid for at least 25 years, so you can sign app updates with the same key through the lifespan of your app.
Certificate: Enter some information about yourself for your certificate. This information is not displayed in your app, but is included in your certificate as part of the APK.
Once you complete the form, click OK.

Continue on to Sign your app for release if you would like to generate an APK signed with your new key, or click Cancel if you only want to generate a key and keystore, not sign an APK.
If you would like to opt in to use App Signing by Google Play, proceed to Manage your app signing keys and follow the instructions to set up App Signing by Google Play.
Sign your app for release
Regardless of how you choose to manage your key and keystore, or whether you want to build an APK or app bundle, you can use Android Studio to sign your app with either the upload key or the app signing key:

If you choose to manage and secure your own app signing key and keystore, you should sign your app with your app signing key.
If you choose to use App Signing by Google Play to manage and secure your app signing key and keystore, you should sign your app with your upload key.
To sign your APK for release in Android Studio, follow these steps:

Click Build > Generate Signed Bundle/APK.
In the Generate Signed Bundle or APK dialog, select Android App Bundle or APK and click Next.
Select a module from the drop down.
If you have your signing information ready, select a keystore, a private key, and enter the passwords for both. Otherwise, first generate a key and keystore and then return to complete this step.

Note: If you are using App Signing by Google Play, you should specify your upload key here. If you are managing your own app signing key and keystore instead, you should specify your app signing key. For more information, see Manage your key above.


Figure 4. Select a private key in Android Studio.

If you're building an app bundle, you can tell Android Studio to also save your signing key as an encrypted file by checking the box next to Export encrypted key. To be able to upload your app bundle and take advantage of Dynamic Delivery, you need to upload this encrypted file to the Play Console and enroll in App Signing by Google Play.
Click Next.
On the next window, select a destination for the signed APK(s) or app bundle(s), select the build type, choose the product flavor(s) if applicable, and click Finish.


Figure 5. Generate a signed version of your app for the selected product flavors.

Note: If your project uses product flavors, you can select multiple product flavors while holding down the Control key on Windows/Linux, or the Command key on Mac OSX. Android Studio will generate a separate APK or app bundle for each product flavor you select.

After Android Studio finishes building your signed app, you can either locate or analyze your app by clicking on the appropriate option in the pop-up notification. If you selected the option to export your signing key, you can quickly navigate to it by clicking the dropdown arrow in the bottom right corner of the popup to expand it and clicking Show Exported Key File, as shown in figure 6.


Figure 6. After the IDE finishes generating your signed app bundle, click the links in the popup to analyze or locate your app bundle, or locate your exported signing key.

You may now distribute your signed app through an app marketplace like the Google Play Store, or using the mechanism of your choice. For more about how to publish your signed APK to the Google Play Store, see Get Started with Publishing. To learn more about other distribution options, read Alternative Distribution Options.
In order for users to successfully install updates to your app, you will need to sign your app with the same certificate throughout the lifespan of your app. For more about this and other benefits of signing all your apps with the same key, see Signing Considerations below. For more information about securing your private key and keystore, see Secure your key, below.

Configure the build process to automatically sign your app
In Android Studio, you can configure your project to sign the release version of your app automatically during the build process by creating a signing configuration and assigning it to your release build type. A signing configuration consists of a keystore location, keystore password, key alias, and key password. To create a signing configuration and assign it to your release build type using Android Studio, complete the following steps:

In the Project window, right click on your app and click Open Module Settings.
On the Project Structure window, under Modules in the left panel, click the module you would like to sign.
Click the Signing tab, then click Add  .
Select your keystore file, enter a name for this signing configuration (as you may create more than one), and enter the required information.


Figure 7. The window for creating a new signing configuration.

Click the Build Types tab.
Click the release build.
Under Signing Config, select the signing configuration you just created.


Figure 8. Select a signing configuration in Android Studio.

Click OK.
Now every time you build your release build type by selecting an option under Build > Build Bundle(s) / APK(s) in Android Studio, the IDE will sign your app automatically, using the signing configuration you specified. You can find your signed APK or app bundle in the build/outputs/ directory inside the project directory for the module you are building.

When you create a signing configuration, your signing information is included in plain text in your Gradle build files. If you are working in a team or sharing your code publicly, you should keep your signing information secure by removing it from the build files and storing it separately. You can read more about how to remove your signing information from your build files in Remove Signing Information from Your Build Files. For more about keeping your signing information secure, read Secure your key.

Sign each product flavor differently
If your app uses product flavors and you would like to sign each flavor differently, you can create additional signing configurations and assign them by flavor:

In the Project window, right click on your app and click Open Module Settings.
On the Project Structure window, under Modules in the left panel, click the module you would like to sign.
Click the Signing tab, then click Add  .
Select your keystore file, enter a name for this signing configuration (as you may create more than one), and enter the required information.


Figure 9. The window for creating a new signing configuration.

Repeat steps 3 and 4 as necessary until you have created all your signing configurations.
Click the Flavors tab.
Click the flavor you would like to configure, then select the appropriate signing configuration from the Signing Config dropdown menu. 
Figure 10. Configure signing settings by product flavor.

Repeat to configure any additional product flavors.

Click OK.
You can also specify your signing settings in Gradle configuration files. For more information, see Configuring Signing Settings.

Sign Wear OS apps
If you are building an Wear OS app, the process for signing the app can differ from the process described on this page. See the information about packaging and publishing Wear OS apps.

Signing considerations
You should sign your app with the same certificate throughout its expected lifespan. There are several reasons why you should do so:

App upgrade: When the system is installing an update to an app, it compares the certificate(s) in the new version with those in the existing version. The system allows the update if the certificates match. If you sign the new version with a different certificate, you must assign a different package name to the app—in this case, the user installs the new version as a completely new app.
App modularity: Android allows APKs signed by the same certificate to run in the same process, if the apps so request, so that the system treats them as a single app. In this way you can deploy your app in modules, and users can update each of the modules independently.
Code/data sharing through permissions: Android provides signature-based permissions enforcement, so that an app can expose functionality to another app that is signed with a specified certificate. By signing multiple APKs with the same certificate and using signature-based permissions checks, your apps can share code and data in a secure manner.
If you plan to support upgrades for an app, ensure that your app signing key has a validity period that exceeds the expected lifespan of that app. A validity period of 25 years or more is recommended. When your key's validity period expires, users will no longer be able to seamlessly upgrade to new versions of your app.

If you plan to publish your apps on Google Play, the key you use to sign your app must have a validity period ending after 22 October 2033. Google Play enforces this requirement to ensure that users can seamlessly upgrade apps when new versions are available. If you use App Signing by Google Play, Google ensures your apps are correctly signed and able to receive updates throughout their lifespans.

Secure your key
If you choose to manage and secure your app signing key and keystore yourself (instead of opting in to use App Signing by Google Play), securing your app signing key is of critical importance, both to you and to the user. If you allow someone to use your key, or if you leave your keystore and passwords in an unsecured location such that a third-party could find and use them, your authoring identity and the trust of the user are compromised.

Note: If you use App Signing by Google Play, your app signing key is kept secure using Google's infrastructure. You should still keep your upload key secure as described below. If your upload key is compromised, you can contact Google to revoke it and receive a new upload key.

If a third party should manage to take your key without your knowledge or permission, that person could sign and distribute apps that maliciously replace your authentic apps or corrupt them. Such a person could also sign and distribute apps under your identity that attack other apps or the system itself, or corrupt or steal user data.

Your private key is required for signing all future versions of your app. If you lose or misplace your key, you will not be able to publish updates to your existing app. You cannot regenerate a previously generated key.

Your reputation as a developer entity depends on your securing your app signing key properly, at all times, until the key is expired. Here are some tips for keeping your key secure:

Select strong passwords for the keystore and key.
Do not give or lend anyone your private key, and do not let unauthorized persons know your keystore and key passwords.
Keep the keystore file containing your private key in a safe, secure place.
In general, if you follow common-sense precautions when generating, using, and storing your key, it will remain secure.

Remove signing information from your build files
When you create a signing configuration, Android Studio adds your signing information in plain text to the module's build.gradle files. If you are working with a team or open-sourcing your code, you should move this sensitive information out of the build files so it is not easily accessible to others. To do this, you should create a separate properties file to store secure information and refer to that file in your build files as follows:

Create a signing configuration, and assign it to one or more build types. These instructions assume you have configured a single signing configuration for your release build type, as described in Configure the build process to automatically sign your app, above.
Create a file named keystore.properties in the root directory of your project. This file should contain your signing information, as follows:
storePassword=myStorePassword
keyPassword=mykeyPassword
keyAlias=myKeyAlias
storeFile=myStoreFileLocation
In your module's build.gradle file, add code to load your keystore.properties file before the android {} block.
...

// Create a variable called keystorePropertiesFile, and initialize it to your
// keystore.properties file, in the rootProject folder.
def keystorePropertiesFile = rootProject.file("keystore.properties")

// Initialize a new Properties() object called keystoreProperties.
def keystoreProperties = new Properties()

// Load your keystore.properties file into the keystoreProperties object.
keystoreProperties.load(new FileInputStream(keystorePropertiesFile))

android {
    ...
}
Note: You could choose to store your keystore.properties file in another location (for example, in the module folder rather than the root folder for the project, or on your build server if you are using a continuous integration tool). In that case, you should modify the code above to correctly initialize keystorePropertiesFile using your actual keystore.properties file's location.

You can refer to properties stored in keystoreProperties using the syntax keystoreProperties['propertyName']. Modify the signingConfigs block of your module's build.gradle file to reference the signing information stored in keystoreProperties using this syntax.
android {
    signingConfigs {
        config {
            keyAlias keystoreProperties['keyAlias']
            keyPassword keystoreProperties['keyPassword']
            storeFile file(keystoreProperties['storeFile'])
            storePassword keystoreProperties['storePassword']
        }
    }
    ...
  }
Open the Build Variants tool window and ensure that the release build type is selected.
Select an option under Build > Build Bundle(s) / APK(s) to build either an APK or app bundle of your release build. You should see the build output in the build/outputs/ directory for your module.
Because your build files no longer contain sensitive information, you can now include them in source control or upload them to a shared codebase. Be sure to keep the keystore.properties file secure. This may include removing it from your source control system.

Sign your app from command line
You do not need Android Studio to sign your app. You can sign your app from the command line, using apksigner for APKs or jarsigner for app bundles, or configure Gradle to sign it for you during the build. Either way, you need to first generate a private key using keytool. For example:

keytool -genkey -v -keystore my-release-key.jks
-keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000 -alias my-alias
Note: keytool is located in the bin/ directory in your JDK. To locate your JDK from Android Studio, select File > Project Structure, and then click SDK Location and you will see the JDK location.

This example prompts you for passwords for the keystore and key, and to provide the Distinguished Name fields for your key. It then generates the keystore as a file called my-release-key.jks, saving it in the current directory (you can move it wherever you'd like). The keystore contains a single key that is valid for 10,000 days.

Now you can build an unsigned APK or app bundle and sign it manually, or configure Gradle to sign your app.

Sign your app manually from the command line
If you haven't already done so, build your app from the command line. If you want to sign an app bundle from the command line, you can use jarsigner. If you instead want to sign an APK, you need to use zipalign and apksigner as described below.

Open a command line—from Android Studio, select View > Tool Windows > Terminal—and navigate to the directory where your unsigned APK is located.
Align the unsigned APK using zipalign:

zipalign -v -p 4 my-app-unsigned.apk my-app-unsigned-aligned.apk
zipalign ensures that all uncompressed data starts with a particular byte alignment relative to the start of the file, which may reduce the amount of RAM consumed by an app.

Sign your APK with your private key using apksigner:

apksigner sign --ks my-release-key.jks --out my-app-release.apk my-app-unsigned-aligned.apk
This example outputs the signed APK at my-app-release.apk after signing it with a private key and certificate that are stored in a single KeyStore file: my-release-key.jks.

The apksigner tool supports other signing options, including signing an APK file using separate private key and certificate files, and signing an APK using multiple signers. For more details, see the apksigner reference.

Note: To use the apksigner tool, you must have revision 24.0.3 or higher of the Android SDK Build Tools installed. You can update this package using the SDK Manager.

Verify that your APK is signed:

apksigner verify my-app-release.apk
Configure Gradle to sign your app
Open the module-level build.gradle file and add the signingConfigs {} block with entries for storeFile, storePassword, keyAlias and keyPassword, and then pass that object to the signingConfig property in your build type. For example:

android {
    ...
    defaultConfig { ... }
    signingConfigs {
        release {
            // You need to specify either an absolute path or include the
            // keystore file in the same directory as the build.gradle file.
            storeFile file("my-release-key.jks")
            storePassword "password"
            keyAlias "my-alias"
            keyPassword "password"
        }
    }
    buildTypes {
        release {
            signingConfig signingConfigs.release
            ...
        }
    }
}
Note: In this case, the keystore and key password are visible directly in the build.gradle file. For improved security, you should remove the signing information from your build file.
Now, when you build your app from the command line by invoking a Gradle task, Gradle signs your app (and runs zipalign) for you.

Additionally, because you've configured the release build with your signing key, the "install" task is available for that build type. So you can build, align, sign, and install the release APK on an emulator or device all with the installRelease task.

An app signed with your private key is ready for distribution, but you should first read more about how to publish your app and review the Google Play launch checklist.

Content and code samples on this page are subject to the licenses described in the Content License. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Last updated December 18, 2018.